Added response to review comments (#41)
greenelab/knowledge-graph-review: content/response-to-reviewers.md

# Response to Reviwers

## Reviewer 1

>The authors review how knowledge graphs can be applied in the context of biomedical applications. I found the review to be well-written, highly organized and informative. I have no substantial suggestions and recommend acceptance.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Thank you. We appreciate the positive feedback on our manuscript.

```

>Minor suggestions which can be fixed by authors in the editorial process:

> - Table 1: What is the organizing principle behind the order of the databases? Would it be better to order them alphabetically?
> - "or though the use"?
> - "into a subphrases"?
> - Table 3: Maybe define or spell out the Types of Sentences.
> - "This values within"?
> - "uses a matrices"?
> - "other effots"?
> - "then determines how"?
> - Figure 5b: Font too small
> - "goal of recommend safe drugs"

> **We would like to thank the reviewer for noticing these typos and we have fixed them in this new revision.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We would like to thank you for noticing these typos. We have fixed each of these during our revision process.**

```

## Reviewer 2

>The manuscript attempts to review methods for knowledge graphs and their biomedical applications. 
>The review is too general. 
>It tries to combine disparate lines of research ranging from dimensionality reduction, manifold learning, to graph community detection and frame it under knowledge graph learning. 
>Although no established definition of knowledge graph exists, an essential property of a knowledge graph is that it models relations between nodes, which don't apply to dimensionality methods (SVD,PCA,,etc.) and other methods such as node2vec. 
>Almost all of the discussions in this manuscript deals with methods that don't model relations. 
>The only part that correctly refers to a class knowledge graph methods is translational distance methods.  

> **We appreciate the reviewer's perspective; however, we emphasize that the focus of this review is to discuss the pros and cons of building knowledge graphs and representing them in a low dimensional space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This point from the reviewer helped us to identify a series of substantial revisions that we needed to make to the manuscript for clarity.
We agree with the reviewer that there is not a single, well-established definition of a knowledge graph in the literature.
Therefore, we should clearly specify a definition and refer to consistent framings in the literature.
We now do this.
For the purposes of this review, we defined a knowledge graph as:
> a resource that integrates one or more expert-derived sources of information into a graph where nodes represent biomedical entities and edges represent relationships between two entities.
This is a broader definition than some.
For example, knowledge graphs that aren't suitable for symbolic reasoning would qualify under this definition.
However, selecting this broader definition allows us to discuss a growing set of methods (including SVD, PCA, node2vec, and other strategies) for producing reduced representations that are then used for prediction.
```

> This space is intended to capture the essence of a knowledge graph and is dependent on the node and edge structure of a graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Once knowledge graphs are represented in this space, they can no longer be considered "true" knowledge graphs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The methods discussed in our review are focused on how this low dimensional space is constructed and we updated our text to be more explicit on how knowledge graphs are used as input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We took the reviewer's concerns to heart and now, throughout the manuscript, we clearly specify when transformations produce a representation that is no longer a knowledge graph (e.g., the SVD decomposition or node2vec embeddings) for the purposes of an application.**
```
Please do a read through and make sure we actually do this.

> **

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I guess these can't be set apart on their own - at least in the diff it was bolding everything that followed too.

>The following are some comments: 

>What specifically do you mean by techniques that represent KGs and machine learning methods that are used to learn low-dimensional vectors?

> **When we say, "techniques that represent knowledge graphs in a low dimensional space", we allude to methods such as node2vec and translational distance models that associate nodes and possibly edges to dense vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**For "techniques that represent knowledge graphs in a low dimensional space", we include methods such as node2vec and translational distance models that associate nodes and possibly edges to dense vectors.
```

> These vectors implicitly capture the essence of a knowledge graph itself and machine learning methods can utilize these vectors to perform tasks such as link prediction for biomedical applications.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For these techniques, the idea is that these vectors capture the predominant features of a knowledge graph.
This representation can make it easier to apply machine learning and other methods to perform tasks such as link prediction for biomedical applications.
We now clearly specify that these reduced representations are not, themselves, knowledge graphs.**
```

>at least references 1, 2, 5,6 and 2 are concerned with methods for graphs not necessarily knowledge graphs, in which the edge label (i.e., relation is essential to its definition).

> **We define biomedical knowledge graphs as the following: "a resource that integrates one or more expert-derived sources of information into a graph where nodes represent biomedical entities and edges represent relationships between two entities.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**As there was no single, well-accepted definition of a knowledge graph we had to select one from the literature.
We selected a relatively permissive definition because we felt that many recent methodological advances had been demonstrated primarily on more general graphs of biomedical entities extracted from biomedical knowledge bases.
We specifically defined a biomedical knowledge graphs as: "a resource that integrates one or more expert-derived sources of information into a graph where nodes represent biomedical entities and edges represent relationships between two entities."
We agree that not all of these references were about biomedical knowledge graphs.
We have now clarified the first paragraph to discuss _graphs_, before diving into our definition of biomedical knowledge graphs in the second paragraph.**
```

> We note in our text that this definition is consistent with other definitions found in the literature and discuss a limitation to our definition as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We consider the graphs mentioned in those resources as knowledge graphs per our definition and note the limitations of those methods within our review.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't see any way that a social network is a knowledge graph. I think this is a losing argument. I think the easier fix is just to make the first paragraph be about graphs and then jump into the definition of biomedical knowledge graphs in the second paragraph. Alternatively, you could revise the first one to simply include knowledge graphs.

Reviewer: I filed https://github.com/greenelab/knowledge-graph-review/issues/56 to track this.

>Figure 1 doesn't show the relationship direction, For example, "causes", "binds" and other relations don't clearly specify the source and destination nodes which can be confusing.
>Ideally, a knowledge graph should show that. 
>Please have a look at some knowledge graphs reviews in literature. 
>For example, https://arxiv.org/pdf/1503.00759.pdf 

> **We appreciate the reviewer pointing out this fact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We appreciate the reviewer noticing this.
```

We updated our figure to reflect edge directionality and updated the text to discuss edge directionality.**

```diff
- A metagraph (schema) of the heterogeneous network used in the Rephetio project [..].
- This undirected network depicts pharmacological and biomedical information.
- The nodes (circles) represent entities and edges (lines) depict relational information between two entities.

+ The metagraph (i.e., schema) of the knowledge graph used in the Rephetio project [..].
+ The authors of this project refer to their resource as a heterogenous network (i.e., hetnet), and this network meets our definition of a knowledge graph.
+ This resources depicts pharmacological and biomedical information in the form of nodes and edges.
+ The nodes (circles) represent entities and edges (lines) represent relationships that are shared between two entities.
+ The majority of edges in this metagraph are depicted as unidirectional, but some relationships can be considered bidirectional.
```

>"relatively precise data, but in low quantifies"?

**We like to thank the reviewer for pointing out this typo.

> "Quantifies" should be "quantities" and this statement was designed to convey that manual curation results in high precision but low recall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we were fixing this typo, we realized that the sentence itself was unclear and could be improved.
```

> We updated the text to remedy this issue.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We updated the text to clarify the point that we intended to make.**
```

```diff
- Studies have shown that databases constructed in this fashion contain relatively precise data, but in low quantifies 
+ Studies have shown that databases constructed in this fashion contain relatively precise data but the recall is low 
```

>what you refer to as "unifying techniques" is relational learning, I don't see why you refer to it in such an ambiguous way. 
>Furthermore, grouping the techniques into three is so broad and doesn't correctly represent knowledge graphs methods. 
>For example, matrix factorization and deep learning. 
>Matrix factorizations such as isomap, PCA, SVD and others are not knowledge graph representation techniques, but dimensionality reduction techniques.

> **We grouped techniques based on their functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We grouped techniques based on the methods that underlie them.
```

> We agree that the title for this section is a bit ambiguous and we have changed our title to the following: "unifying representational learning techniques" (diff provided below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We agree that the title for this section was overly broad.
We have changed our title to refer to these as representational learning techniques, as this is a term used in the machine learning methods literature for techniques that aim to capture a low-dimensional representation with certain properties.
```

> We take the viewpoint that these methods can be applied to knowledge graphs and have updated text to be more explicit on this point.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though the output of these methods is not, in and of itself, a knowledge graph, we expect that these methods can be applied to knowledge graphs and have updated text to be more explicit on this point.**
```

> - "or though the use"?
> - "into a subphrases"?
> - Table 3: Maybe define or spell out the Types of Sentences.
> - "This values within"?
> - "uses a matrices"?
> - "other effots"?
> - "then determines how"?
> - Figure 5b: Font too small
> - "goal of recommend safe drugs"

**We would like to thank you for noticing these typos. We have fixed each of these during our revision process.**

## Reviewer 2

>The manuscript attempts to review methods for knowledge graphs and their biomedical applications. 
>The review is too general. 
>It tries to combine disparate lines of research ranging from dimensionality reduction, manifold learning, to graph community detection and frame it under knowledge graph learning. 
>Although no established definition of knowledge graph exists, an essential property of a knowledge graph is that it models relations between nodes, which don't apply to dimensionality methods (SVD,PCA,,etc.) and other methods such as node2vec. 
>Almost all of the discussions in this manuscript deals with methods that don't model relations. 
>The only part that correctly refers to a class knowledge graph methods is translational distance methods.  

> **This point from the reviewer helped us to identify a series of substantial revisions that we needed to make to the manuscript for clarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree with the reviewer that there is not a single, well-established definition of a knowledge graph in the literature.
We identified a series of substantial revisions that we needed to make to the manuscript for clarity.
```

> We agree with the reviewer that there is not a single, well-established definition of a knowledge graph in the literature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Therefore, we should clearly specify a definition and refer to consistent framings in the literature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have made revisions to clearly specify a definition and refer to consistent definitions in the prior literature.
```

> We now do this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We took the reviewer's concerns to heart and now, throughout the manuscript, we clearly specify when transformations produce a representation that is no longer a knowledge graph (e.g., the SVD decomposition or node2vec embeddings) for the purposes of an application.**

>The following are some comments: 

>What specifically do you mean by techniques that represent KGs and machine learning methods that are used to learn low-dimensional vectors?

**For "techniques that represent knowledge graphs in a low dimensional space", we include methods such as node2vec and translational distance models that associate nodes and possibly edges to dense vectors.
For these techniques, the idea is that these vectors capture the predominant features of a knowledge graph.
This representation can make it easier to apply machine learning and other methods to perform tasks such as link prediction for biomedical applications.
We now clearly specify that these reduced representations are not, themselves, knowledge graphs.**

>at least references 1, 2, 5,6 and 2 are concerned with methods for graphs not necessarily knowledge graphs, in which the edge label (i.e., relation is essential to its definition).

> **As there was no single, well-accepted definition of a knowledge graph we had to select one from the literature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We selected a relatively permissive definition because we felt that many recent methodological advances had been demonstrated primarily on more general graphs of biomedical entities extracted from biomedical knowledge bases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We specifically defined a biomedical knowledge graphs as: "a resource that integrates one or more expert-derived sources of information into a graph where nodes represent biomedical entities and edges represent relationships between two entities."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We agree that not all of these references were about biomedical knowledge graphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We agree that not all of these references were about biomedical knowledge graphs.
```

# Response to Reviwers

## Reviewer 1

>The authors review how knowledge graphs can be applied in the context of biomedical applications. I found the review to be well-written, highly organized and informative. I have no substantial suggestions and recommend acceptance.

>Minor suggestions which can be fixed by authors in the editorial process:

> - Table 1: What is the organizing principle behind the order of the databases? Would it be better to order them alphabetically?
> - "or though the use"?
> - "into a subphrases"?
> - Table 3: Maybe define or spell out the Types of Sentences.
> - "This values within"?
> - "uses a matrices"?
> - "other effots"?
> - "then determines how"?
> - Figure 5b: Font too small
> - "goal of recommend safe drugs"

> We acknowledge identified typos and they will be fixed once the revision process has completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would like to thank the reviewer for noticing these. We have fixed the typos.
```

## Reviewer 2

>The manuscript attempts to review methods for knowledge graphs and their biomedical applications. 
>The review is too general. 
>It tries to combine disparate lines of research ranging from dimensionality reduction, manifold learning, to graph community detection and frame it under knowledge graph learning. 
>Although no established definition of knowledge graph exists, an essential property of a knowledge graph is that it models relations between nodes, which don't apply to dimensionality methods (SVD,PCA,,etc.) and other methods such as node2vec. 
>Almost all of the discussions in this manuscript deals with methods that don't model relations. 

> >The only part that correctly refers to a class knowledge graph methods is translational distance methods.  

Reviewer: Should respond to this first paragraph too.

>The following are some comments: 

> >**What specifically do you mean by techniques that represent KGs and machine learning methods that are used to learn low-dimensional vectors?

Reviewer: I'd suggest not bolding these to make this easier for folks to read.

We implicate that techniques represent knowledge graphs by associating nodes and possibly edges to dense vectors.
These dense vectors can be utilized to perform task such as link predictions, node classification, node similarity calculations etc.
Machine learning methods be used to either make the association between nodes and these vectors or be used to make classification calls using these vectors as input.
In this revision we will clarify text to highlight this association and be distinct on the difference between machine learning methods that make the association and methods that are used to perform tasks.

>**at least references 1, 2, 5,6 and 2 are concerned with methods for graphs not necessarily knowledge graphs, in which the edge label (i.e., relation is essential to its definition).

> We acknowledge that these references use general methods for knowledge graphs; however, we use these references to exemplify the fact that the graphs used are considered knowledge graphs.

Reviewer: Use methods for general graphs in the first part? Otherwise I don't understand. Also, who considers those graphs to be knowledge graphs? By this point, you should have defined how you are defining knowledge graphs.

>**Figure 1 doesn't show the relationship direction, For example, "causes", "binds" and other relations don't clearly specify the source and destination nodes which can be confusing.
>Ideally, a knowledge graph should show that. 
>Please have a look at some knowledge graphs reviews in literature. 
>For example, https://arxiv.org/pdf/1503.00759.pdf 

> Figure one uses the same network schema as used in Project Rephetio (https://elifesciences.org/articles/26726).

Reviewer: Aren't some rephetio edges directional?

The authors on that project intentionally kept the edges as undirected; however,
we agree that some relationships can have ambiguous directionality (e.g. upregulates/downregulates can infer gene upregulates disease or disease upregulates a gene).
For this revision, we plan to update the text to state that our example knowledge graph can have bidirectionality.

>**"relatively precise data, but in low quantifies"?

> This statement means the quality of curated data is of high grade, but the amount of data inserted into databases is quite small. 

Reviewer: I think they were confused both by the typo but in what the quantities are. Can you take a look at the surrounding sentences and see if you can say things more precisely? I think the high precision / low recall point below might work better for most readers.

In other words, manual curation provides results that have high precision but low recall.

> The quantifies is a typo and should be quantities and will be fixed when the revision processed is finished.

Reviewer: This is the point where you're doing the revision process :)

Reviewer: Also, be consistent about how you bold. I almost missed this.

It looks like it should be: bold your responses, don't bold their questions

>**what you refer to as "unifying techniques" is relational learning, I don't see why you refer to it in such an ambiguous way. 
>Furthermore, grouping the techniques into three is so broad and doesn't correctly represent knowledge graphs methods. 
>For example, matrix factorization and deep learning. 
>Matrix factorizations such as isomap, PCA, SVD and others are not knowledge graph representation techniques, but dimensionality reduction techniques.
> More importantly, you don't show how they can be applied or used in the context of knowledge graphs as claimed?

We agree that the title for that section is a bit broad and we updated the text to accommodate the suggestion.
You are correct in stating that these methods are not knowledge graph specific; however, they can be used on knowledge graphs to associate nodes to dense vectors (low dimensional space).
We provided a reference that used SVD and other matrix factorization methods to perform this association for link prediction tasks and node classification tasks.

> In this revision we will update text to be more explicit on how these class of methods can be used on knowledge graphs.

Reviewer: Put the text that you are revising here too so your reader doesn't have to go back and forth between the documents.
